---
layout: post
title: A provider-view of search web service
---

I read and discussed the paper [1] with Hessam. This paper tries to understand and diagnose the search response time variations from the perspective of service providers. The author categorized four factors attributing to the search response time including the network characteristics of clients, the nature of queries, and the web browser as well as the the query processing time of the server. But only the former three are the key factors to the SRT variations, the final one has only a small impact on the variations compared with the former three. The author timestamped the entire process between the client and the server which conduct the web search process and had their data collection process for about 6 months. They did the controlled experiment. For each measures, they found out it is was impacted by one or multiple factors. The paper assumed a linear model to identify the factors that cause the most variation and quantify the impact. Next, this paper discussed the anomalies detection and diagnosis for their root cause. For anomalies detection, it is quite interesting about the methodology they used in the paper. Their approach is based on time series decomposition. They use the threshold which is defined in many statistical areas to deem whether the data point at time t is anomalous or not and they compared the results with two commonly used approach for anomaly detection. The problem is that they did not compare the results with the ground truth anomaly detection method. They argued the approach used in the paper worked fine in the experiments. I was surprised by the last two minutes of the talk given by the author in the Sigcomm2013 conference. For diagnosing the anomalies, the paper made a anomaly classification and quantified the fractions of each class containing the anomalies.
Next step: search for current state-of-the-art time series decomposition method and related papers and apply them in the short term properties for the dual band wireless measurement based on twonet.